Hi, I am a Ph.D. student at the University of Toronto in the Department of Computer Science. I am part of the Toronto Climate Observatory where I do interdisciplinary place-based research on climate and disaster data under the supervision of Professor Robert Soden. My research interests lie at the intersection of Human Computer Interaction, Critical Data Studies, and Feminist and Decolonial STS and I use historicist methods, ethnography, and participatory design methods to pursue them. 
 
My dissertation research examines the role of computing and digital technology as sites of political contestation that determine our understanding of climate change and possible responses to its impacts. This work is motivated by the well-documents disparities in the impacts of climate change and how digital technology is both being used to exacerbate these disparities as well as create alternatives that resist them.  In particular, I examine the information practices of grassroots activists and civic-tech organizations in Nepal as they attempt to create local climate and disaster data infrastructures to address local needs, incorporate local knowledge, and increase community participation. I want to understand the role of broader historical, social, and technological constraints in shaping the practices and impacts of these activists and organizations, and using these insights to design socio-technical interventions that can better support them to intervene in their stated goals of climate and disaster equity.

In my past life, I used to work as a data scientist and research engineer at Ford Greenfield Labs on a project to detect bias, robustness, and validate safety of perception systems for self-driving cars. I have also worked as a volunteer, researcher and consultant at various tech organizations in Nepal exploring the use of drones, AI, and data science for developmental and disaster-related projects in the Nepalese context.  I hold a Master’s in Aerospace Engineering from Stanford University and a B.Sc. in Engineering from Harvey Mudd College.

In my free time, I like to hike, crochet, and read fantasy novels.

